Welcome back.
We are about to start the big loop over all the iterations of one epoch so not to confuse our two loops
actually happening in the training.
First the loop over all the epochs and we'll have 100 or 1000 epochs and then inside each book.
Well we have a second loop which is this loop here which loops over all the iterations during the whole
epoch.
And since an epoch is a five month period and the time step is the minute.
Well that means that he will loop over all the minutes that there are in five months.
That is five months time 30 days times 24 hours time 60 Minutes that the total number of minutes in
five months.
And right now we're about to implement right here what will happen at each iteration that is at each
minute.
All right.
So there was just a week here and now to bring even more clarity.
Well let's highlight again the general framework as you can see here it is again.
So first of all this starts here.
What we've just done in the previous tutorial is about initialising all the variables of both the environment
and the training loop.
And so that's what you always have to do when starting the training loop over the books and then inside
the second loop here iterating on all the minutes in our epoch five month.
Well here are the steps that we're going to do.
So first we're going to play the next action by exploration and this will happen 30 percent of the time.
And then 70 percent of the time well we'll play the next action by inference.
So here it's important to understand that at each iteration either this or this will happen this will
happen 30 percent of the time.
And this will happen 70 percent of the time.
All right then depending on which way we play the action we will update the environment and we will
reach the next date.
So of course for this we will use our environment object where all the tools are already ready for us
to do that easily.
Then we'll store the new transition into memory indeed by updating the environment and reaching the
next date that will give us new elements which will make a transition and we'll add this new transition
into the memory.
Then we'll gather in two separate batches the inputs and the targets.
So there you of course think about what we did in D'Ken class here.
We will use Of course our d'une object.
And then finally last gen step of the general framework is to compute of course to last over the two
whole batches of inputs and toilettes and that's it.
All these will implement the training.
And today we're going to start with this first step which is actually exploration step meaning that
we're going to play some random actions with a 30 percent probability at each time step.
And so now the question is how are we going to model that.
How are we going to say that 30 percent of the time.
Well we want the next action to be played randomly.
Well that's actually a classic trick in programming and especially when doing this takes or all these
days science and AI wrenches you have to know this trick.
We will actually do it twice in the course once here and once in the next part when implementing Tompson
sampling.
So the trick is to return a random number between 0 and 1.
So that's the beginning of the trick and then this random number we're going to say that if this random
number is below 30 percent which is our Epsilon here our exploration parameter.
So if our random number is below 30 percent well in that case we'll play the action randomly.
And on the other hand if this random number is above 30 percent well we'll predict the action.
And why does it work.
Why will this make sure that we play some random action 30 percent of the time and return the prediction
70 percent of the time.
Well that's because you know by drawing a random number between 0 and 1.
Well this random number has 30 percent chance of being lower than 0.3 and 70 percent chance of being
larger than 0.3 and therefore that only means that 30 percent of the time.
Well we will play the actions randomly because 30 percent of the time are drawn random number will be
below 0.3 and 70 percent of the time we will predict the action because 70 percent of the time well
this random number drawn will be over 0.3.
Right.
Pretty simple trick but very effective one and a pretty cool one as well.
So let's do this let's implement this.
And therefore now you know what to do.
Try to actually Buzby you and do it before me and now I'm going to do it.
So if a random number taken between 0 and 1 which we're gonna get thanks to non-Thai and then from then
I'm going to get the random module and then from the random module I'm going to get this time that the
rand int function.
But the rand function because we don't want to extract an integer but a float of course.
And the rand function here will return a float.
And since the arguments of this run function are first the lower bound of the range and second the upper
bound of the range.
And since the default values for these two bounds are respectively 0 and 1.
Well we don't have to input any value of the arguments here.
So therefore this will directly return a random number between 0 and 1.
Right.
Very practical.
Thank you.
Bye by now so what do we have to do.
We said well if this random number is lower than epsilon which is our exploration parameter or point
3.
Well if our random number is below 0.3 then since this will happen 30 percent of the time.
Well in that case what we want to do is play a random action because we want to have 30 percent of exploration.
All right so let's do this let's return this random action.
So first I'm going to introduce the action variable.
It's a new variable and introducing but which will of course be the action.
And then now since I want to return again a random action.
And since the actions are indexes between 0 included and 5 excluded you know the possible actions are
0 1 2 3 or 4.
Well what I'm going to get this time will be still a function by the random Munjal by an umpire first
and you get none by then the random module.
And then this time we're going to get of course the rund int function because we want to get a random
index of the action between zero included and five excluded.
Why do I say included and excluded.
That's because I think like Python you know when we take a range in Python the lower bound is included
and the upper bound is excluded.
And therefore here to get the lower bound.
Well that's 0 that's our first possible actions.
But then to get the upper bound.
Well I'm going to get the number of actions which is a variable here.
Number actions which is 5 as opposed to four.
Because indeed we want the excluded upper bound.
All right perfect.
This will return a random action between 0 included and five excluded.
So that's exactly what we want to do.
But now since we actually play the action well remember the consequence of doing that which we can already
get here.
Anti-HIV course about the energy spent.
Because as soon as the AI AI plays an action well since the action changes the temperature of the server.
Well that means that AI spends some energy and sense that energy spent is the whole point of what we're
doing here.
You know we're trying to minimize that energy.
Well at this point right after playing the action we get that energy spent at that specific time step
in that specific iteration.
So let's get it.
Let's compute it and then we'll add it to the total accumulated we want.
So how are we going to get that energy spent.
Well that depends on the index of the action because if the action is below the direction boundary you
know which is to well that means that the action is either 0 or 1 which means that respectively the
area is either cooling down the server by 3 degrees or cooling down to sort of by 1.5 degrees.
However if the action is larger than the direction boundary Well that means that the action is either
three or four which means respectively that the AI is heating up by 1.5 degrees or heating up by 3 degrees.
And therefore whether we are below the direction boundary or above the direction boundary well the direction
of temperature change is the opposite.
But we need to figure out first the direction of temperature change because indeed then we'll have to
update our environment and to update our environment.
We'll use our update on function from our environment object.
And this a bit of function requires the direction in its argument.
So we have to get the direction.
And that's exactly our next step here.
So let's do this in order to figure out the direction of temperature change.
I'm going to do another condition here which is going to check if the action is lower than the direction
boundary so we can write it this way if the action minus the direction boundary is lower than zero meaning
if the action is lower than the direction boundary.
Meaning if the action is zero or one.
Well in that case what will be the direction.
Of course I'm talking about that direction here in the update function.
You know the update on function takes three arguments and one of them is the direction of temperature
change.
So since right now we're dealing with the training at a specific iteration and then in the general framework.
Well remember we have to update the environment Well of course we're going to update it thanks to this
update of method.
But in order to call this update function well of course we need to get the direction.
OK.
And so if the action is lower than the direction boundary that means that the action is either 0 or
1 which means that AA is going down the server and therefore that means the direction is going to be
minus one.
Right.
Remember the direction is either minus 1 or plus 1 it's a minus 1 when the 8 cools down the server and
it's a plus when when the AI heats up the server.
Ok so perfect we get direction.
And now of course we're going to add here else which is the opposite situation happening.
And so else meaning if this time the action mynahs direction boundary is larger than zero meaning if
the action is larger than the direction boundary Well then the action is either three or four and therefore
the seeding of the server and therefore the direction is this time plus 1 and perfect.
And now you're going to see how we will very easily compute the energy spent by at the specific times
that we're dealing with right now in this while loop because indeed the energy spent by the AI is going
to be the absolute value of the action index that was played you know through this exploration step
minus the direction boundary and of course times that can you guess what it's going to be.
Well it's going to be the temperature step which is 1.5 because indeed we're going to check of course
that this formula is correct.
I'm basing that here.
All right let's try.
Let's say that for example the action is zero.
Well that means that the age is cooling down server by three degrees and therefore according to assumption
to the energy spent will be three joules and therefore let's check that when the action is zero here.
This formula is correct.
Well if the action is zero then since the direction boundaries to that means that the absolute value
of this will be to multiply by the temperature step 1.5 will be three.
So that's is correct then if the action is one that means that the AA is cooling down to sort of by
1.5 degrees which means according to assumption to that energy spent is 1.5 joules and now let's check
that this formula gives us 1.5 joules.
Well if the action is one well one minus the direction boundary which is true gives us minus 1.
So the absolute value is one multiplied by the temperature that is 1.5 per Feg if the action is zero
that means that the aid doesn't transfer any heat.
So the energy spent is zero.
And of course all this is zero.
And then one last test if the action is four which corresponds to the situation where the AI hits observed
by three degrees.
Well four minus two equals two multiplied by 1.5 the temperatures there.
Which gives us three joules and therefore we get the exact formula for the energy spent by the AI at
that specific iteration.
All right.
That was pretty fun.
Not only do we get directly a formula for the energy spent but also we get that direction which we will
need here in this next step.
When I'm dating the environment and reaching the next date.
But before that we'll tackle this next step which is of course an essential step because that's where
we will play the next action.
By inference meaning by predicting the outcome with our brain and this will happen 70 percent of the
time because you will see what will start here and we can already start with this is we'll start with
an else because indeed this as a response to this which corresponds to the other situation where our
random number extracted is not below 30 percent meaning it's going to be above 30 percent which will
happen 70 percent of the time.
And since 70 percent of the time we want to play the next action by inference well that we'll make sure
that 70 percent of the time we will do some exploitation.
All right.
So let's tackle this next.
Doyle again try to do it yourself before me.
And then we'll do it together.
Until then enjoy AI.